Name? 

	Zach Mentzer - Vikes

Age? 

	23

Gender? 

	M

Race/Class, and Significance

	Right now I'm playing a Night Elf Death Knight. Night Elf because Shadowmeld, which gives me the ability to get in deep and still get out. As for Death Knight, I'm just playing that because it's really fun right now. I used to play a druid, and my druid was my main, but as I needed to do other things I started leveling new characters to fill whatever spot needed to be filled. I've always liked tanking, so most of my characters are tanks. I also really enjoy leveling, so its not a big deal to me to level a new character. I just play whatever I feel like playing. It's the mechanics of the class rather than the lore or the idea behind any character. 

Why/When did you start playing? Have you taken any extended breaks

	I started playing because YummYumm recruited me. I started playing at the beginning of WotLK, which was something like 2007? 2008? It was really the family and the community that got me into the game.

	I took a break towards the end of Cata, because I didn't like the content (MoP) and because everybody else stopped playing. Again, the game is a social game for me and I couldn't justify playing when the people that got me into the game weren't around.

	I came back for the same reason I did in the first place, because everybody that got me into the game wanted me to. "New content, old friends"

Why do you continue to play?

	Same as above. New content to clear and explore with the same people I want to socialize with. 

What are your goals in the game?
	
	Depends on the day, I guess. I enjoy PvP a lot. I like the challenge of pvp and I like the spontaneity of world pvp, but I also like PvE a lot. Lately I've been going back to the content I missed and clearing it, because I like that exploration and completion aspect of the game too.

	Unlike some of the other people in the guild, I don't think of myself as bloodthirsty. If horde want to pick a fight, I'm down to help out and I like to finish it, but I don't see the need to make every horde I see have a bad day if he's not looking for a fight.  

How much time do you spend in the game and what do you spend your time doing?

	More than I should. Probably 4 or 5 hours a night. I do whatever I feel like doing. I'm a selfless player, if people need something I'm always down to help, but if its the kind of night where everybody is doing their own thing then I'll be doing old content or something like that for fun. I'll probably be the kind of player who leads the B team or something, helping players to get geared enough to do real raids and stuff like that. I'm totally willing to help people learn and help them gear because when everybody is having fun, I'm having fun. 

How many guilds have you been in?

	I've been in 3 guilds. BearBlasting is the obvious one. One of the others was a progression raiding guild and they brought me in and helped me gear and helped me learn. It was a first experiece for me with new content in a progression sense, we wiped a lot. 

What do you get out of guilds? 

	Guilds lead to friends. The people in the guild are people I can hang out with, talk to, help out if they need helping out. It's nice to have a community to come home to and the end of the day and hang out with. 

Describe the guilds you've been in. How are they organized, are they "serious"?

	My guilds never really took things too seriously. Having fun and keeping it light was definitely a priority, because I think if people take things too seriously in a game it stops being fun. So its more about hanging out and telling jokes and having fun than it is about clearing a boss or getting to a high rating or whatever.


