Name? 

	Thomas Sindle - YummYummElf

Age? 

	27

Gender? 

	M

Race/Class, and Significance

	Night Elf (Feral) Druid
	Druid jack of all trades, reflects real life values of being adaptable and able to fill multiple roles, and to mold yourself to fit the situation. Feral druid allows me to be agressive and "feral", but I can still switch and heal or tank when that's what is needed. I'm a night elf because shadowmeld (the Night Elf racial passive) is really strong. Not really into role playing, but I aimed to make my Night Elf representative of the lore of the class. 

	My druid allows me to be excessively aggressive, which is the opposite of how I am in real life, but in PvP I enjoy that ability to put the other player on the back foot and then adapt to how they try to defend themselves. 

Why/When did you start playing? Have you taken any extended breaks

	Started playing in 2005-ish (18 years old, about), because my competetive CoD team played WoW. I enjoyed the hardcore competetive nature of CoD and they talked a lot about that other kind of competetive game, which got me interested. It was a transition from one competetive environment to another competetive environment, but it was really my friends who enabled that transition.

	Two extended breaks, one when I moved out of my parents house because I didn't have access to that kind of internet that I needed to play. That short hiatus meant that I was so far behind that curve it wasnt worth catching up so I stopped playing with my old guild and made my own. Having my own guild allowed me to bring friends and family in in a more casual way. The other break was because I moved and got a new job, had a son, and really just wasn't able to balance managing a guild and my real life. That break lasted about three years (MoP) until a co-worker and I were nostalgia tripping about the game and the new expansion made me want to see what was new. 

Why do you continue to play?

	One of the two games in the world that give me an adrenaline rush when I play, one is DayZ and the other is WoW. I love the open world that throws situations at me (world PvP), and the rush I get from having an opponent (horde players) that are constantly a threat and an enemy in the world. 

	In addition, its one of the cheapest ways I can have a lot of fun and interact with the people I'm close to. WoW costs money each month, but it's cheaper than the movies and it's something I can do with my friends and my wife as often or as infrequently as I choose. 

What are your goals in the game?
	
	I want to have fun. I enjoy raiding because it is a benchmark for success, but I really enjoy battlegrounds and world PvP. The impromptu nature of the world where I can just engage someone in the world in a battle where the odds are not set and can pop up anywhere. I really love the unscripted nature of world PvP.

How much time do you spend in the game and what do you spend your time doing?

	A couple of hours a night. Right now I spent my time leveling and doing whatever I can with whoever is on in the guild, but mostly world PvP and battlegrounds. 

	I used to spend a LOT of time basically, but have since grown up. Things change. I have to juggle a family and a full time job. I used to do a lot more raiding (even progression), but it felt like a second job at one point. It was a means to an end (raid gear to pvp), and the guild that I was playing with kind of sucked the fun out of the game for me. It was too hard to get the people that I wanted to play with into the kind of raiding that I was a part of, and so I chose to stop doing that kind of raiding so I could spend more time with the people I wanted to play with. 

How many guilds have you been in?

	The first guild I was a part of was Stampers. Stampers as a WoW guild had a very different outlook from their CoD team. As a CoD team, they were very very hardcore. People practiced, you had to know the strats, we did weekly scrims, stuff like that. As a WoW guild they were the opposite. They did raiding, they did battlegrounds, but not very seriously. What made them unique was their attitude, they were very almost "family" oriented. This also made them widely criticized as one of the "worst" guilds on Azgalor (the server, in terms of player skill). They were great people, sweethearts, but not really good players. But they took me to raids. Looking back feral druids were really not in a good spot, and they took me to raids when I probably wouldn't have taken me to a raid. They were also down at the drop of a hat to go anywhere to world PvP. Most of how I handle my guild now I learned from Stampers. 

	Once I realized that, I went to a more serious raiding guild, Mystic. (Singaporan or Australian, I was up really late some nights). I started learning to lead raids with those guys. 

	Then I applied to Social Butterflies. At this point I was pretty good, and Social Butterflies was one of the top guilds on the server. I joined their 'b' team, which was still good enough to be one of the top progression raidgroups on the server. I was doing it for gear. PvE gear to do world PvP. I was still very much a "pvper trapped in the pve guild". There were some guys in Butterflies who would pvp, but not in the way Stampers would. 

	Then I started BearBlasting, for the reasons we talked about before. It's a constant struggle to try and balance that "family oriented" attitude while still maintaining a serious "core" group of really good players. For me, a guild is a place for comaraderie and a place for people to come together and do things together. And that's why I started my own guild. I was tired to trying to fit my "square" play-style into other guilds' "round" play-styles. In my guild I can do things the way I want, with PvP and "family oriented" and some semi-progression raiding if we can get a solid core group and if other people want to do that they can come and join my guild. 





