Name? 

	Brad Birth - Everclear

Age? 

	28 

Gender? 

	M

Race/Class, and Significance

	I'm now a Gnome Priest. I've pretty much always played a Priest. I like healing, just because its fun and I like game mechanics. I feel like healers have a big impact on stuff in a way a dps can't. I'm in med-school in real life so I guess that kinds of makes sense. I like the way people rely on me. I was originally always Undead on Horde, but faction and class don't matter so much.


Why/When did you start playing? Have you taken any extended breaks

	I started playing because my roommate in college played, actually we played Warcraft 3 and we played the WoW beta. When I got 60 I got really competetive (progression raiding). I was the best 60 priest on the server, and I used to PvP with some of the best PvP servers in my raid gear because it was so good. We did all the end-game content and we were a pretty serious guild. I've played most of the content so far, but I took a break for all of Cata (3 or 4 years) because of real life stuff. I actually played on private servers (60 level cap) off and on through that time, just to kind of re-live the good old days. I came back now just because WoD looks exciting, my brother wanted me to and I've got some more time for the game now. 

Why do you continue to play?

	A small part of it might just be nostalgia. There's a big sense of accomplishment when you down a big boss for the first time that's hard to get in real life. I'm giving the game a chance and hoping it's good. Also to play with friends and things like that. 

What are your goals in the game?

	I do want to PvE some more. It probably won't be as hardcore as it used to be, but I really like raiding. It's also going to be cool to be pushing PvP with the start of the new expo, and start ahead of the curve rather than just trying to catch up to the best people all the time. 

How much time do you spend in the game and what do you spend your time doing?

	Probably like... 2 hours a day week days and 4 hours weekends. Mostly I'm just gearing up PvP right now, I've also been leveling my pets and playing old content just for vanity. Just really killing time until the new expansion, and getting ready with addons and configuration to get to where we need to be for the new content. 

How many guilds have you been in?

	Like 6 probably. Some small some huge. My first guilds were just for fun and trying to raid and get my resume up so I could apply to get into the really good guilds. I x-fered realms a lot and got to see a lot of the better guilds on different servers. 

What do you get out of guilds? 

	You get to know people. It's a social thing mostly. It's a place to collaborate and get organized so you know who brings what to the raid and you can all know which of the members you can rely on. I've had some different guild experiences, but its the people in the middle of the guild that makes a big difference. The people at the top can do their best or they can cause drama, but its the people in the middle who are the meat of the guild and the average player will give you a better indication of the guild attitude than the leaders will. 

	Organization and size are what makes the difference. If you have a big enough pool you'll always be able to pull the best people in the guild. You need a good foundation, a lot of players, but also several good officers who will give direction to the guild, keep people on track and make sure everybody knows what's what. The best guild's I've been in have been really organized, where the guild leaders let their officers handle problems in the bulk and delegate things to the rest of the guild. 

