Name? 

	Alex Birth - Tyrael (Everclear's brother)

Age? 
	
	24

Gender? 

	M

Race/Class, and Significance

	Tauren Warrior / Worgen Warrior
	I've always been tanky, I like that spirituality of Tauren, but it's always been powergaming for me.I like war stop for PvP, so it was mechanical reasons at first. I've always been a warrior and I'll always be a warrior. Generally speaking that's because I wanted to be a tank in Vanilla, but since them I've learned to love the balls to the wall up in your face PvP playstyle.

Why/When did you start playing? Have you taken any extended breaks?

	I started playing freshman year of high school, in 2004 when I was 15, because my good friend Travis wanted me to play right at the end of Beta. It was the first real MMO and it bridges a lot of cliques at my school, the jocks and the band geeks all played WoW together. I took one big break because the game was kind of a ghost town to me. I stopped playing in Cata because my brother didn't have time, and now that we both have time to play again we're giving it another chance. 
	
Why are you coming back to the game?

	A lot of the reason I'm coming back is because of the community. The last two expansions have been pretty meh and the people I played with stopped playing. Now that everybody is coming back I'm giving the game another chance. Like Everclear, I've played a lot on private servers during that time. 

What are your goals in the game?

	"Become Gladiator, be awesome." I've always had really high aspirations for PvP, not so much anymore for PvE. One of my main goals in the game coming back is to focus on hardcore PvP than I used to. 

How much time do you spend in the game and what do you spend your time doing?

	My mindset changed every expansion pack. In Vanilla I played almost only PvE, and then in BC I went hard in PvP. Wrath was PvE again, and then in Cata (for what Cata I played), I almost always PvP'd. When I was in high school I got really mediocre grades, and I can pretty much attribute that to WoW.Now, I have a 9 to 5 and if I play a lot of WoW I'm not neglecting anything the way I was in high school. 

How many guilds have you been in?

	4 real guilds. My first guild was a hardcore raiding guild (best on server). BC was less serious, but it was still a lot of like-minded people doing PvP. In Wrath I played 2 different guilds, one was about 50/50 PvP and PvE. I actually left my first guild (it fell apart) in Wrath because the guild leaders were really corrupt. Now I'm on Alliance to play with my brother again and some IRL friends. 

What do you get out of guilds? 

	Friends really. I've gotten a lot of real life friendships out of guilds. I think guilds lead to power-hungry people being in charge. I know that I've got that in me, so I try to avoid being placed in higher positions in guilds. 